---
sidebar_label: "3.1 Bulletin board scenario"
---

# Bulletin board scenario

Imagine an old-fashioned cork bulletin board on the wall in an office
hallway.  This is a small bulletin board, with room for just a single
piece of paper to be tacked up on it.  Here are the office rules for
this bulletin board:
1. Anyone can post a message on the board when it is vacant.
2. Once someone has posted a message, no one else can take it down.
   Only the person who posted that message may remove it.

Be sure you understand these rules.  The following pages will refer
back to them as 'rule 1' and 'rule 2'.  You can probably imagine
extending them to include content restrictions or time limits on
posts, but they are kept intentionally simple for this tutorial.

What does it look like to implement an online version of this bulletin
board?  A globally shared space where anyone can update a message is
easy to create, but how to enforce the rules?

Rule 1 can be enforced using only the public state of the bulletin
board: if it's empty, allow a new message to be posted, but if it's
occupied, reject attempts to post a message.

Rule 2 is more complicated, because it requires that the identity of
the user attempting to remove a message be verified.  (In fact,
there's another constraint hidden in the English statement of the rule
when it refers to the person who 'posted *that* message.'  This implies
that the user wanting to take down a post is able to prove not only
their identity, but also that they tacked up that specific post.)

One obvious way to enforce rule 2 is to make users 'log in' to the
bulletin board system, so that the system can authenticate their
identities.  This approach requires users to transmit evidence of
their identities across the Internet to the bulletin board server,
usually involving some sort of secret shared between each user and the
server, which the server can verify.

Is there a better way?  With Midnight, yes there is.  You can
contractually obligate anyone who wants to remove a message from the
bulletin board to validate *for themselves, on their own computer*
that they posted it.  Midnight can safely and reliably enforce the
terms of the contract by requiring a machine-checkable proof that the
validation has occurred, without requiring the private evidence of the
user's identity to be transmitted across the Internet.

On the following page, you will work through the process of writing a
Midnight contract that represents this online bulletin board and
enforces its rules without sending private identity information across
the Internet.  Then, you'll develop a DApp that can deploy a new
bulletin board and post or remove messages.
